One of the methods for
funding a startup is
equity crowdfunding.
I would like you to explain to us
basically what it consists of and what
benefits it has for some and for others
and what types there are.
In the end, equity crowdfunding
is about financing, rather
than funding with a limited
and small set of investors,
more professional, it is about
accessing the famous power
of the masses and is, instead
of having two investors of
100,000 euros, it is to have
200 investors of 1,000
euros.
As always, it has advantages
and disadvantages.
It is important to understand
why it serves and why it does
not.
And also the limitations it has,
because there are different
tastes within the way to do
equity crowdfunding.
Equity crowdfunding has an important
particularity and is that everything
is channeled through a campaign.
So that implies that you have to
explain very well to investors
of the platform you have decided
to opt for, what is dedicated to
your company and what they are,
we have told in another video,
the technology it has, who
the equipment is, how the market
is, etc.
Does the platform usually guide you in that?
As always, there are levels.
That is, there are platforms that
are almost software, that is, I leave
you a site, you upload things
where you want and public ones.
Almost all have a certain level of
filter, but the sophistication or
complexity of the filter level is
one of the important things that
differentiates platforms.
The most software and the ones that operate
more as an investor.
The ones that are more software
are absolutely great for a model,
I would almost say, of
self-service, where, hear, you
get this information, there in
Globalida, hear, good, great,
has good look, the platform
is launched to a community
of investors.
These investors communities
can take different forms.
There are platforms that the minimum investment
is 50 euros and others that are
3 or 5,000 euros.
So, the type of investors varies
a lot.
That is, we have met companies
that say, hear, because look,
I am looking for a product
that is, I don't know, an
application for taxis.
This can actually be worth
a 50 per person.
I'm really looking for a
product that's for big companies,
I don't know, because the
other one makes more sense.
One of the super important
advantages of equity crowdfunding
is that it's not just money.
In other words, you are actually
doing a advertising campaign.
You are putting your product in front of
thousands of people and it is a tremendously
valuable thing.
This is one of the key differences
between equity crowdfunding
and other types of funding.
As for how companies are filtered,
that's where we count the
first huge difference.
As I said, there are two types of platforms.
The platforms focus on trading
as much as possible and this
has some implications with
your business model.
And the platforms that focus
on quality.
In other words, you can make
money in two ways, with
quantity and quality.
So, the quantity ones seek to
make a filter usually much more
extensive.
Invest in larger sized operations
and a little more mature
companies.
And the others invest in more initial things.
So, depending on the moment your
company is, because you have to
set out where you want to go.
Hear, we are just launched, we
have an initial prototype and we
want to have feedback from the
market and maybe raise 50,000 euros.
Well, you might be interested in going
on this type of platform.
We've been doing this for a while
now and our business is really working
well.
And we are looking for an alternative
way to Venture Capital to
finance us a round of 300 or 500,
000 euros.
They are perfect for this type
of platform.
The range you usually find is,
I tell you, from 20,000 to 50,
000 euros to half a million, even
a little more, depending
on the model.
And it's enough to have a small
market analysis to know who
does what.
Then there's one thing that for
me is, I'm very critical of
equity crowdfunding, even though
our business goes pretty much
around.
The business model on
a crowdfunding platform
is to pay a percentage
of the amount that
is traded.
So that has a beauty or look operating
as a marketplace, but it
also has a problem from my
conceptual point of view.
And it is that I think as an
investor, I have a few years of
experience investing, really the model
is not going to give the company
the paste and go out running.
But for me the investment
model of what goes is, once
I have invested in the
company, to help it succeed.
So, a model that is based only
on taking a percentage of the company
and is already there, is a model
that pushes you to make a
lot of volume.
The more rotation and more things you have,
the more desires.
It's a model that
I will have short legs because
really investing is
a complicated thing.
And there is another that focuses
more on working on more analyzed things
and that even in some cases
invest their own capital in companies.
And finally, one of the beauty of
equity crowdfunding is the
fact that the investors that can
get you in and depending on the
type of platform, it can be
300 or 20 in one and another
type, you will find investors
who want to help you sometimes.
This is often something that attracts
the attention.
The absolute engagement, interest
that investors have, having
invested 500 euros, 2000 euros in
a company, who feel completely
theirs and are responsible for
recommending to their friends.
If you are in a large company,
recommend the product
internally for use.
So, there's a second derivative that
often doesn't take into account
equity crowdfunding that's seen
simply as a way to fund yourself,
but that you're actually leveraging
or supporting yourself in the
power of a community.
And that's something that's well done
and there's a lot to do too much about
the role that the platform wants to play
in the various points, which can be
absolutely disruptive and critical to
your business.
Because in the end, and it is a
way that we do not forget, the best
investors for good are customers.
If you have both investors
and customers, you have
succeeded.
I will do a look at it and I will
do it in two blocks.
I will start with the last thing you
were saying, which are the advantages.
The advantages or benefits of
using an equity crowdfunding platform.
The obvious is that it allows you
to finance yourself in a simpler way and
access a lot of people.
And you've added two, the
notoriety you're earning because you'
re doing a advertising campaign.
With thousands of potential customers.
And another third is that you'
ll get, which is something curious,
that people who have invested in
very small tokens then feel very partisans
and want to help you.
So, of course, instead of having two
partners and if you have 200, because
that can generate a role.
And then what you did is you have
actually classified the platforms
into two types.
We talked about one more software model
and the other model, I don't remember
how it's called.
Yes, I've called it more software at
the end, but at the end you have
to see a more marketplace model.
In the end, what we're talking
about is a platform that assumes
that the group of high-end investors
are sufficiently trained
to discern that it's a good
company and that it's
a not so good company.
And then absolutely leaves the decision-
making power in the hands of investors.
That is what curation of the
content of supply and demand.
In the case of such platforms,
supply and demand are
absolutely free to enter.
There are filters, no one is
so crazy to let anyone go
up things.
But the number of filters and the
friction you have changes.
And this type of platform, so
you counted, can be a good option
for projects in more early stages.
There are some that close large
volumes of investment, but
not all, much less.
And then there is another model
of critical funding platform, which
I already know you don't like the
term, which are platforms where
the control of the projects
that are incorporated into the
platform is much larger.
Why is?
Because the platform, as in your
case of Startup Explore, analyzes
all the projects that go up.
So you are guaranteeing...
That we are not the only ones, there
is more operating with this idea of fixing
a lot on quality.
So, this type of platforms are an
option for companies that have a
little more traction, that have
been more valuable the business
model and the round volumes
are larger.
Usually yes.
It also changes the
role the platform
wants to play.
That is, in the first things it is
usually great, great and you have achieved
the investment or not, and in the
second sometimes there is even
a certain support once you have
achieved the investment.
It's important, and it's one thing
I haven't mentioned, also that one
when called over a critical funding
platform take into account the
factor of how many projects
out of every 10 that you launch,
for example, close the platform.
Because in the end if you close three
out of 10, because if you are one of
the three is wonderful, but if not,
that can leave a certain even stigma
of is that you have not even
managed to close your investment round.
This is one of the big questions to ask.